# University-Network-Analysis

As technology has improved in recent years, a considerable number of electronic devices are connected to the local network, and consequently to the global network called Internet. Therefore, the Internet traffic consumption has been increasing considerably in these networks, which previously only had desktop computers connected. There are different tools for analyzing a network connected to the Internet, such as broadband speed tests, which are widely used to rate the connection quality. However, they do not offer a detailed analysis of this data, providing only the measurements of the tests carried out and a superficial analysis. Furthermore, the literature studies also do not report the evaluation of these networks for different transmission media. Therefore, the objective of this work was to evaluate the connection of the Federal Technological University of Paraná on the Cornélio Procópio campus with the development of scripts to automate the speed tests. For this evaluation, a series of speed tests were conducted, which measure the download transmission rate, upload transmission rate, latency and jitter. With these samples, it was possible to carry out an analysis by generating graphs and tables of the data sample, also automated with scripts. These functionalities were developed through Python language libraries used mainly for data analysis. Finally, experiments for network analysis were carried out with variations of 3 factors: types of transmission media, location and period. The transmission media were guided, Ethernet, and unguided, with Wi-Fi. The location is related to the block in which they were executed, as this may influence the number of connected devices, given that the number of people on the campus varies between different times. The results of the study show a satisfactory scenario, in which the university presents good instantaneous data transmission rates, in addition to good performance with low latency and jitter. Furthermore, it was possible to notice similarities, such as very close results in latency and jitter values, and also differences, which occurred more impactfully in the results regarding instantaneous transmission rates between the different experiments performed. Thus, it was possible to evaluate the impact that each factor had on the experiments. The combination of the factors Wi-Fi transmission media with the night period resulted in the result with the worst performance in the work, which produced the greatest impact on the internal access network, while the combination between the factors Ethernet transmission media and afternoon period produced the result with the best performance. However, the work was not able to determine all the causes related to the anomalies detected in the network.
